Version 0.6.0

	Fixed libxmlwrapp to not depend on libxslt if XSLT support
	is enabled (Vadim Zeitlin, #1927398).

	Ported Unix build system to Autotools.

	Split pkg-config file xmlwrapp.pc into xmlwrapp.pc and
	xsltwrapp.pc. Applications that use libxsltwrapp need to be
	updated to use the latter (too).

	Input document to xslt::stylesheet::apply() is now passed as
	const reference instead of non-const one.

	It is no longer necessary to instantiate xml/xslt::init object before
	using the library; this is now done automatically (thread safety is
	preserved) and new code shouldn't do it. Moreover, creating multiple
	xml/xslt::init object instances is now possible and doesn't result in
	multiple initialization/shutdown of the library.

	Configuration methods of xml/xslt::init classes are now static.

	The previously separate manual was merged with Doxygen documentation so
	that all documentation is available in single place. As a consequence,
	PDF version of the manual is no longer provided, use HTML documentation
	included with xmlwrapp source distribution.

	Added xml::node::get_namespace() function.

	Added new constructor to the xml::node class for creating text nodes,
	using xml::node::text helper struct.

	Improved iterators performance (only if Boost.Pool is available).

	Added xml::node::elements() methods for efficient iteration over child
	elements. In most cases, this is a better alternative to find().

Version 0.5.1

	Various compilation fixes.

Version 0.5.0

	Fixed a null pointer dereference problem in
	xml::attributes, Bug ID 20. Thanks goes to John K. Hohm
	for finding this and providing a working patch.

	Added three new constructors to the xml::node class for creating
	CDATA sections, XML comments, and XML processing instructions. This
	is done using three new helper structs, xml::node::cdata,
	xml::node::comment, and xml::node::pi.

	Added new member functions to the xml::node class.
	They are: size and empty.

	Added new member functions to the xml::document class.
	They are: size, push_back, insert, replace, and erase.

	Added the ability to compress XML files saved with the
	xml::document::save_to_file member function (Bug ID 19).

	Major clean ups in the test harness. Test code should be a lot easier
	to write now.

Version 0.4.4

	Small changes so that xmlwrapp can work with libxml2
	version 2.6.0. Thanks goes to Craig Wiesen and Jonathan
	Wakely for finding this. (Bug ID 18).

	Fixed a typo in the manual. Thanks goes to Bill
	Luoma. (Bug ID 16).

Version 0.4.3

	Fixed a build problem on Linux (bug 10). This happens when
	libxslt was installed in /usr. configure.pl could not find
	libxslt because xslt-config does not list /usr/include.

	Updated the TODO list.

Version 0.4.2

	Version 0.4.2 is a maintenance release. A few small bugs were
	fixed and a work around for a bug in Perl 5.8 was added.

	Updated Perl scripts to work around a bug in the Perl 5.8
	regex parser. Thanks goes to Andy Chou.

	Added an encoding patch from Dmitriy Nikitinskiy.

Version 0.4.1

	Version 0.4.1 fixes a few small bugs and also includes some new
	features. It is binary compatible with version 0.4.0.

	Typos in the doxygen documentation were fixed thanks to Jonathan
	Wakely, Stephen Blake and Chris de Hoop.

	Fixed a bug in configure.pl that caused a bad xmlwrapp-config to
	be generated when XSLT was enabled.

	Added support for pkg-config and the xmlwrapp.pc file.

	Added support for libexslt.

	Added the xml::init::remove_whitespace member function to skip
	ignorable whitespace from parsed XML documents. Default value is
	false, so whitespace is included in the node tree by default.

	Added the xml::node::self and xml::node::parent member
	functions. They return @code{xml::node::iterator} or
	xml::node::const_iterator objects.

	Added a new version of the xml::node::insert member function that
	does not require a location iterator, but instead inserts at the
	end of the child list like the xml::node::push_back member
	function does.

	Added a range version of the xml::node::erase member function and
	a version that takes the name of a node to erase. All nodes with
	matching names will be removed from the child list.

	Added two versions of the xml::node::sort member function.  The
	first, will sort child nodes with the given name using one of
	their attributes as a sort key. The other, uses a user supplied
	function object to sort the child nodes.

Version 0.4.0

	Version 0.4.0 is a feature release. xmlwrapp now supports XSLT via
	libxslt. This support is called xsltwrapp and is optional.

	Added the xslt::init and xslt::stylesheet classes to support XSLT.

	Added the xml::init::load_external_subsets member function to make
	libxml load external subsets by default.

Version 0.3.0

	This version contains a lot of new features. Because of this,
	certain API calls have been changed or removed. The following list
	should help you update code that is using xmlwrapp.

	Changed configure.pl to require at least version 2.4.28 of
	libxml2.

	The xml::tree_parser constructors can now throw exceptions if
	there was an error during parsing. This is optional, and is
	controlled by a bool flag passed to the constructors. This also
	means that xml::tree_parser will now prevent libxml2 from sending
	error messages to standard error. The new default behavior is to
	throw an exception.

	Some of the xml::event_parser callback member functions have
	changed. There are also new callbacks so that you can catch CDATA
	sections, processing instructions and XML comments.

	It is now safe to throw exceptions from within an
	xml::event_parser callback.  The exception will not be passed up
	the stack to the caller of one of the parsing member
	functions. Instead, it will stop the parsing and set an error
	condition.

	There is a new xml::document class that allows you to set XML
	document variables such as the encoding and version. The document
	class also supports saving itself to a file, string or a
	std::ostream. It also includes functions for validating a document
	against an internal or external DTD.

	The xml::tree_parser class no longer contains a get_root_node()
	member function.  It has been replaced with get_document() which
	will return a reference to a xml::document object. That object can
	then be used to call get_root_node().

	Another new class, xml::attributes, for getting and setting the
	attributes of a node. This class replaces all the member functions
	of xml::node that dealt with attributes. This class is much better
	than using the old xml::node member functions because it supports
	iterators and functions like find.

	The xml::init class will prevent libxml2 from sending any messages
	to stderr.  This should not be a problem since most classes will
	catch the message and use it in an exception or store it for later
	use.

	xml::init will now set some default libxml2 global
	variables. Indenting of output XML text is turned on. Default
	substitution of entities on turned on.  Validating of all
	documents by default is turned off. There are new member functions
	you can use to change these defaults.

	Compiler flags will no longer contain quotes around directory
	names. This was added for cygwin when people have a space in the
	current working directory path.  It was removed because it was
	causing problems on other platforms.

	There is a new header file, xmlwrapp/xmlwrapp.h, that includes all
	of the other xmlwrapp header files.

	A real working test harness has been added with several tests.

	New member functions for xml::node.

		4 different versions of xml::node::find.

		xml::node::insert.

		xml::node::replace.

		xml::node::erase.

		xml::node::get_attributes.

		xml::node::get_type.

Version 0.2.2

	Version 0.2.2 was a bug fix release.

	Changed include guards so that they don't violate the C++
	standard. Thanks to Greg Chicares.

	Include <cstddef> to get std::size_t and std::ptrdiff_t. Thanks to
	Greg Chicares.

	Fix a major bug where a pimpl was not created in
	xml::tree_parser. Thanks to Greg Chicares.

	Added a call to xmlKeepBlanksDefault(0) in xml::init constructor
	to produce better looking XML. If this causes any problems we will
	have to remove it. This was suggested by Daniel Evison.

	Fixed an issue with command quoting in the configure.pl script.

Version 0.2.1

	Version 0.2.1 was a bug fix release.

	Fixed a bug in the xml::event_parser class that caused parsing to
	continue even when one of the event member functions returned
	false. Thanks to Michael Grabner for finding this one.

	There were a few reports that xmlwrapp could be compiled using
	MSVC on Win32. A project file for MSVC was added so that no one
	would have to do this again. The STLport is needed on the Win32
	platform.

	The get_namespace and set_namespace functions were removed from
	the xml::node class since they were defined but not yet
	implemented.

Version 0.2.0

	Version 0.2.0 of xmlwrapp was the first public release. It
	included the following changes from version 0.1.0.

	First draft of the documentation.

	Added example programs.

	Changed operator<< for xml::node from a template function to a
	normal function that takes a std::ostream.  This allows xmlwrapp
	to compile with GCC < 3.0.

	Replaced calls to std::free with xmlFree in the libxml2 backend
	wrapper.

Version 0.1.0

	Version 0.1.0 was the first packaged version. It was packaged for
	<http://pmade.org/software/clo++/,clo++>.

	It included no documentation or examples, and was not intended for
	use by other developers.
